do you think that narcissists believe
that and I'm I don't I don't know if
you're a narcissist or not so this isn't
some kind of veiled attack I'm genuinely
curious because I have a follow-up
question do you think that narcissists
believe that they are that they have
that they're objectively better in some
ways than other people
hey man how are you can you can you hear
me yeah thank you for being so patient
I'm sorry about the guys it's fine if
you can have people I don't mind yeah
also what I want to say do you hear echo
when you're talking I I don't hear echo
okay that's good that's good that's good
awesome okay and and just volume wise
what we're doing okay yeah yeah I'm
hearing you clear clear okay let me just
um all right so I think can you tell me
a little bit about what so I'm not quite
sure exactly how this got set up but
there were people in in my chat who
wanted me to talk to you yeah cuz I have
quite a controversial reputation on the
internet and people love to see drama
so they'd love to see you know like I
talk a lot about you know being
responsible and stuff on the live stream
and I've you even run my own place and
such and I can say things that sometimes
are very confrontational and I got
myself a little bit of a cult guru
reputation and that's why they they like
the idea of you know me talking to you
because some for for the drama sake some
to see if there's something interest
interesting that comes out of it
everybody has their a little bit their
own motivation what are you like to get
out of it like for me the the reason why
I think it's a I didn't mind having a
chat because I can potentially learn
from you and you can potentially learn
from me and if our intent is to help out
other people this conversation could
prove to be very fruitful that's one one
aspect of it the other aspect is also
that even if that is not what it leads
to people will get a better idea new
about you know how I think and how I see
things and how you think and how you see
things and either way uh I I do think
that the outcome will be positive either
way so sure my goal
with this talk is not to to country
create controversy or drama I I checked
a bit a few of your streams and well
like I just skipped through it and I I
checked I saw your Dharma approach like
the the Dharma AoE and I looked a bit
into it and like being responsible and
quite action-oriented I I really like
that sure it's it's the it's the you
know it's the direction I steer people
into as well so you're like why are you
doing all of this why am i why do i
stream why do you you know yeah why do
you stream why do you because I also
know you have a website healthy gamers
yeah like what what is the yeah what is
it for you what is your intent what is
your true motivation for what you're
doing so my motivation is Dharma so I
believe that doing this is my duty or
responsibility and what I mean by that
in a much more so that sounds like kind
of fancy but I think in a simple sense
I've had a very unique a couple of very
unique opportunities in my life so I was
addicted to video games slash almost
failed out of college from playing too
many video games and then studied for
several years to become a monk and then
ended up becoming a psychiatrist and in
in the process of training to become a
psychiatrist I started asking a lot of
my professors and supervisors about
video game addiction and then really no
one knew anything because it's a
relatively new phenomenon I think
technology and social media and the way
that they affect minds and brains is
like people just don't understand that
it's a really no one knew much about it
so about five years ago I just started
asking gamers like you know why do you
play video games do you want to play
fewer video games and why can't you stop
and the more that I've worked with
gamers so I you know sort of started
streaming actually only three months ago
and having worked with people for about
five years now I realized that like
a lot of people have the same problems
so that I was essentially having the
same conversations with like dozens or
hundreds of people and realized that
basically we need to AoE this stuff
right so instead of having and that I
could I couldn't get to everyone so
about one year ago a little over a year
ago I posted an an AMA threat on Reddit
and just said I'm a psychiatrist who's
interested in video game addiction and
got thousands of messages people were
like paging me at the hospital and stuff
like that
I got calls from all over the world
actually for parents and people who were
struggling it didn't didn't know how to
get help and so I realized that like I
can't you know I can be a psychiatrist
and work in my office and see 40
patients a week and I will never it'll
never be enough and so I need to change
so if I get it right you you actually
want to help people in in the most
effective manner you can what do you
mean by elective like to give a
comparison rather than having 40
patients
you'd rather like reach thousands if
yeah because because no one else is
right so if someone else is doing it
then that's fine but right now like the
overwhelming message that I get is that
gamers who go and see a psychiatrist get
diagnosed with depression get started on
medication and then six months later
their life is exactly the same and and
why why why do you what why is it
something that you know because I'm just
trying to to understand the motive and
the drive and such right like why do you
want to reach many instead of just 40
because many reach out to me is it
because of the reach out to something so
like so that's good so the reason I
asked about effectiveness is because I
see a big difference between public
health and clinical medicine so there
are some interventions that we do that
effect of population but don't affect
the population as profoundly as an
individual so what I enjoy doing the
most is working with individuals I
actually think that's the most effective
that in order for me to help someone if
I get one hour a week with them for like
six months that person is like different
at the end of that and one of the
struggles that I have with doing this is
that I meet with people once and we sort
of really try to make things like super
cross-sectional and I are trying to help
them out a little bit but I don't know
if this is actually helping people what
you're doing right now yeah by talking
to all these people on the UM on line I
mean people say it's helping right so
the last interview the last survey see
who is helping this part of the equation
you you really want to help people yeah
and you want you want to be able to help
as much as you can yeah why because I
can so let me put it to you this way so
I think Dharma is so Dharma is related
to karma so karma is sort of like the
idea of like circumstance right so like
this so I think that I've been given a
relatively unique background and so that
comes with a certain obligation so let
me put it to you this way
let's say that the two of us are sitting
at a park bench and I have two
sandwiches and you have none and both of
us are hungry I believe that I should
give you a sandwich just because I have
two and you have none that there's just
sort of a karmic setup there that like
if I'm able to do something like who
else is gonna do it because the really
scary
yeah can I give it can I give another
example sure because I like the
apartment let's say you're on the park
bench and you have two sandwiches right
and the person next to you didn't eat
all day right and the person on the
other side of the the park hasn't eaten
for a week
or a month would you give the sandwich
to
I don't understand how that analogy
relates to our situation here well like
for me because when the when the core is
helping people you try to help people
where the needs is the biggest and I'm
just trying to use your support I think
I should be doing instead
well I just want to understand the true
intent and motivation of why you're
helping people because that would give
the answer to whether it even what what
whether it's even relevant if something
else would be better because what would
have what I've realized and and
experienced myself in my life is a lot
of the time when people are doing good
it's within their comfort and when it
when it requires them to go outside
their comfort they start rationalizing
why they shouldn't be doing this so they
shouldn't be doing that and and then
even mentioning what they could be doing
better just causes conflict and has very
little purpose like for me my goal is
not to pinpoint the inconsistencies my
what I just try to understand is what
the intent is because if the intent is
really pure and and really like yeah I
want to help people where the need is
the biggest and and I am very you know
almost about it towards myself and I
would even go out of my comfort zone
because like for example the two
sandwiches if you're really hungry you
could eat them both you go out of your
comfort zone giving a sandwich to the
person next to you but how far would you
go would you would you give it to two
starving people next to you and not eat
the sandwich help me understand why it
is it is help me understand why you want
to understand my motivations and
specifically it sounds like you're
trying to figure out do I fall into the
camp of helping people within my comfort
zone or helping people outside of my
comfort zone that seems to be what
you're asking about or to which extent
would you go out of your comfort zone in
order to to basically follow the the
Dharma ideology yeah so yeah why do you
think you're so you're curious about
that right you're curious about me
and to what degree I will step outside
of my comfort zone to help people well
yeah like it would be it's it's very
interesting to know yet to know these
things because what I yeah yeah so
people people are curious about all
kinds of things right like some people
are curious about what kind of product I
put in my hair
some people are curious about yeah but I
mean I'm curious about this is because
it's very functional
it's like if you can find common what I
mean like what what I mean with that is
if you can find a common shared
foundation then you can potentially get
a lot more of the relationship than just
this talk for example like if you share
you're looking for commonality between
me and you
because now I can play now thank you I
completely agree with because I think
that's what you're looking for too
so I that's a new line more than
commonality with you and me I would say
commonality with are you comparing us
no like that's that's exactly what I'm
trying to get to for me it's not about
comparing to what I do because that's
that's not so relevant to me it's about
understanding your connection to giving
back to the world basically and how
strong that is and so is it how you
isn't that like the central part of I
mean just based on what you've said so
far I guess that that is a very central
part of who you are
is that you are someone who gives back
to the world and I mean I don't really
know much but that I would guess that
you step outside of comfort zones that
many other people would not well the
thing is like for me rather than saying
this is how I am or whatever like I
don't really have an identity about it I
just got to do what I got to do it's
like water that flows down a mountain
why does it flow down a mountain it's
just because it follows the path of what
it is and and I think if you come to a
certain awareness of us what is so let
me ask you what is the how does the
water flow down the mountain in terms of
this example of like me sitting with a
guy next to me and then a guy across the
park who hasn't eaten for a week where
has water flow there well the the thing
is like if you if you grow up right and
depending on how you've been conditioned
and such you are you are very wired to
follow how you feel yeah
rather and do what feels right rather
than what is right Dan so but but and
then your water will flow differently
then if you go about it in a more
analytical manner where you just see the
impact for what it is and base your
actions on that even if it doesn't
always feel as as as as good and that's
the thing that's how you achieve very
big impact by by by playing the number
became more so than playing the the
empathy game and that's why okay so help
me understand something a theme so you
were saying earlier that you don't
really think about this stuff as your
identity you don't really think about
whether you step out of your comfort
zone that you are essentially like like
you have water that flows downhill and
so you have some sort of intrinsic
arrived to do something and you kind of
don't question it you just do it it's
not you it's just a natural process well
let me let me bounce back the question
do I have a drive to breed
yes
okay so like there is an actual active
process in my brain going on where I say
and mind myself to breathe
yes maybe we're maybe we're
miscommunicating well no so yeah you
absolutely have parts of your brain that
measure your co2 levels and Oh two
levels you know that's not it's not part
of my awareness it's it's not part of my
active awareness it's not like but let
me give another example do do do I have
the drive for my blood cells to - you
know heimeau go hemoglobin to absorb
oxygen from the air and distribute it to
my organs do I have a drive to do that
no no well just by drive you buy drive
you're defining that is like an
awareness or a motivation to consciously
do that
why do you drive so yeah that that's
what what I'm trying to get to is trying
to figure out a common ground because to
make sure we understand the same
language so for me like it's more a
state of being rather than a drive it's
like I just wake up and I do what I
gotta do and and that's as simple as it
is there is you know so that's on one
end of the spectrum and being analytical
is on the other end of the spectrum well
but the thing is though like being
analytical is part of just doing what I
got to do because it's like you know a
computer that that processes you know a
lot of data it's also just doing what it
has to do and it's analyzing numbers
like crazy as well like like I just want
to make sure that you understand what
what I mean like it's just a state ID
yeah I don't understand what what you
mean I think but that's what I'm trying
to explain it
that's why I explain it like I think it
would be helpful so generally speaking
in my experience so you let me know if
your experience is different yeah when
I'm communicating with someone who
doesn't understand what I mean and they
ask a question I find that instead of
giving them an explanation or asking
them a completely separate question I
find that like if someone asks me a
question if I'm if my goal is
understanding I just answer it right if
someone asks me like oh look what are
you put in your hair instead of talking
about hemoglobin or red blood cells or
using an analogy I just answer the
question that they ask so like in
communication what is what is crucial is
for the other person to understand what
you mean because else you're just
explaining something based on your own
experience and how you grew up and maybe
the person won't even understand what
you're trying to explain so that's why
for me it's very important to define
certain concepts in a way that you
understand them the way I'm trying to
explain them because maybe I'm using
words in a different way than you are or
have a different meaning in a result we
wish are so so I I completely agree that
sometimes there's confusion about
terminology and that it's important to
like iron out those details but what
I'm really curious about us sometimes I
ask you a question and instead of just
answering the question and then us going
from there because maybe I understand
what you mean maybe I don't so usually
when someone answers a question what I
try to do is repeat back what I
understood and then give them a chance
to clarify but what I'm noticing that
you're doing is when I ask a question
you sort of ask me a question or talk
about some sort of analogy like do you
see how that's the pattern of our
communication it's because I I go within
the concepts you use if you talk about
drive I dive deeper into the word and
what it actually means to me which gives
it a much a much more accurate answer
than one where I would just answer more
superficially in a way that you know
that that's so accurate for who jaime
accra so when you give additional
information well it gives it who does
that who does that make things more
accurate for yourself or for me well it
would give you a better understanding in
what I mean with Drive and how it
relates to but I think why don't you
rely on me to ask the questions about
the things that I don't understand
instead of presuming what I do or don't
understand and that's like telling me
random stuff huh because you might jump
to conclusions based on the answers I
give absolutely man absolutely I
completely agree with you so when I jump
to a conclusion I think it would be
awesome if you point that out to me yes
and that's what I'm and what I think
would also be awesome is if I ask you a
question if instead of like talking
about some sort of foundational analogy
you answer the question and then you see
if I jump to a conclusion like if I ask
you is 2+2 4 and then your answer is
like well let's start talking about
mathematics and then you start talking
about mathematics to make sure we're all
on the same page but if I ask you is 2+2
4 and then you say yes and then I'm like
ok great we all agree that 2+2 is 4 we
don't
have to go into the background but even
there when you say is 2+2 4 even though
that is you know accurate in within
uncertain framework
you could argue in certain frameworks
2+2 is not equal for sure you could
argue anything with anyone I know which
is what we're doing apparently that is
but that is why what I always try to do
is to avoid ok so I think are you
willing to answer questions in a way
that may I may find helpful or do you
want to answer questions in the way that
you think will best help me understand
like are we going to rely on my judgment
to help me like like if I ask you a
question about your preferences or your
beliefs do you think it like it's really
important for you to lay that foundation
or is it possible for you to just answer
a question and then correct me if I'm
wrong that that's the thing if you if
you get to understand like how I see
things
then a lot of these questions become
irrelevant like for example believes if
you ask me what do you believe in like
it's it's very irrelevant to me because
to me I just look at reality and that's
it and things are the way they are and I
accept them my beliefs and even my
feelings are merely tools for life to to
to to thrive and to align with reality
nothing more nothing less
so I don't have an attachment to it if
if I believe a certain thing it's merely
a tool to to to to be more aligned but
if tomorrow I get confronted otherwise I
change that belief
it's very moldable it's adaptable and
that's the thing like when when when
when certain value is being given on
certain concepts I bring up people and
maybe also perhaps you might get the
wrong idea
and that's why I'm trying to explain
like yeah I just I just do what I got to
do and here's what I'm here's what I'm
hearing from you a theme you're very
concerned about people getting the wrong
idea and it's very important for you
that they appropriately understand you
you know I don't find it important like
but that is acceptances stop stop for a
second this whole conversation is about
me asking you a question and then you
taking a painstaking
and deliberate approach to making sure
that I don't jump to conclusions correct
like that's exactly what you've been
saying more so easy for you to
understand what I ABS so then I just
asked you a question it seems very
important that you are not misunderstood
that other people understand what you're
trying to say and don't misrepresent
your beliefs that is what I'm asking if
I value if you if you value
understanding Mead and I deem to show
the respect to explain things the way I
would explain it to myself so if if I
was use not a yes I'm confused
so it's my impression that you were it's
very important to you that I understand
things and I don't jump to conclusions
and that you want to explain things to
me in a way where like I understand your
foundation I understand your logic I
understand where you start from I
understand your foundational beliefs so
that I can understand what you're saying
that's what you're trying to do right
like I ask you a question instead of
answering the question you make sure you
lay the foundation so there's no
misunderstanding between us that's what
we're doing here right if that is the
the is if that is what you value within
the conversation to understand me then
then yes I want to make sure that I
explain but I'm not I'm asking you what
you value in a conversation because I'm
asking you a question and based on your
response okay it's not like that what I
value what I value in a conversation is
for the conversation to lead to positive
results
okay so what I'm getting from you so I
understand that that sounds like sort of
an abstract answer but based on the way
in which you're answering my questions I
think you are very concerned about being
let me finish I think about being
misunderstood and I also think that you
are not comfortable with the idea that
you're concerned about that that if I
tell you that you're concerned about
that that you're going to respond with
something telling me how you're not
concerned about that because you're like
water that flows down hills and water
doesn't concern about anything you know
I'm not saying I'm not saying that I
don't have emotions I have emotions but
I don't I just don't value them like I
could without that I completely
understand that so so like I just said
like you're not gonna be you're not
gonna you're not gonna believe or value
the fact that you are concerned about
being misunderstood but the thing is
though like I I don't really I don't
really mind whether I'm being
misunderstood or not like for me I just
want to understand that once we are on
the same page that's all yeah right so
so like that's exactly what I just said
right like you are not going to accept
or agree to the fact that you are
concerned about being misunderstood and
you just said that well whereas I don't
think I don't experience any concern of
being misunderstood like I believe that
I understand I don't think you
experience the concern what I'm saying
is that if you analyze our conversation
you have a very very important goal in
the conversation to not be misunderstood
and since you devalue emotions I'm sure
you experience them wait wait wait or
what our value is that we have proper
communication
yeah so that when you ask me a question
that I give you a nice you know a nice
overview so you have a good good good
view in what I mean and absent and what
I'm trying absolutely like that that's
what I can I try to rephrase that to you
so what you value in a conversation is
to be understood that's what you just
said right well what I value in a
conversation is that it has positive
results being understood or not is just
a tool in order to get positive results
for me if I know we're on the same page
then understanding each other is by far
the most effective approach in order to
have the best positive results but if
we're not on the same page then
communication is merely a tool for both
of us to achieve the goal while we have
the conversation to begin with are
either this understood I think say what
are you misunderstood when in general
now in general well people call me a
cult leader and stuff like I don't even
like it yeah yeah people yeah I would
say lack of understanding yes a lot of
is a very bit of lack of understanding
but by by bigger than that like on the
Internet
I mean like what's that like for you
well I focus on the people that I can
work with to to have an impact in the
world because I mean I try and I'm not
busy with with like like if if there's a
lot of misery in the world right to put
it I like to use analogies because it's
it makes things very simple to
understand like if they're also missing
in the world yeah that for me you know
the other thing that analogies do a
theme is they separate us from the
equation right they become abstract and
it no longer becomes personal when you
use an analogy
and it allows you to to have a better
you know analytical view on the on the
problem and make better decisions
absolutely so I think well III think it
allows you to have a more analytical
view because when you use an analogy you
remove yourself from the equation right
you're not talking about you anymore
you're talking about a third party well
so it sort of makes sense my
conversation where yeah in a
conversation where you talk to thousands
of people it's very effective to do so
because if I talk more about about my
own personal experience it might be a
little bit you know it might be
alienating for some people while if I
use certain analogies where people can
have an easier time to relate with I can
resonate with more people I think you
know what I think would be awesome like
I would love it if you could do me a
favor I want you to just tell like don't
talk about analogies like what I am
curious about what I would like to
understand is not analogies but is you
and if you're concerned about alienating
me like as I know you're not concerned
about being misunderstood because you've
made that very very clear that you're
not concerned about being misunderstood
but that sometimes there's a chance that
you alienate people when you answer
questions about yourself I'm okay with
that
like I would love it if you could put
faith in me and understand that like
even if you talk about yourself that
like I'm not gonna be alienated or if I
do feel alienated I'll let you know and
then you can set me straight so you're
telling me I can trust you I'm asking
you to trust me I'm asking you to not
worry about alienating me and tell me
about yourself because that's what I'm
curious so like why are you curious
about myself
because you're here like I'd like to
understand you that's that's what I'm
that's what I that's what I scream for
to talk to and uhm
do you truly want to understand me I
think so
well that that question implies that
there may be some up part of the
understand like so that's just a weird
question do I truly want to understand
you that it's not working because
because if how would I know the
difference between wanting to understand
you and truly wanting to understand you
I think I I think that if your true
intent is to understand me rather than
understanding wanting to understand me
for another you know separate goal the
the intent for which you are trying to
understand me will highly define the way
you go about it like seeking first to
understand and putting yourself in other
people's shoes to truly see the world
through their eyes and try to understand
it has always you know has a reason
behind it yeah me because you want to
achieve something yourself and depending
on what your own goal is your own motive
is you will this process of trying to
understand me will be different like it
might it might suit can I jump in I know
you're on a roll but so like I
completely agree with you so like I just
want to point out what I think just
happened there so you asked me do you
truly want to understand me I expressed
confusion about something your question
and then you provided an explanation and
now I understand what you mean and my
confusion is gone and I do truly want to
understand you okay and then let me tell
you my true motivation from that
conversation is to see or to understand
if
we both are on the same page in terms of
truly wanting to help people because if
you want to help people and I want to
help people and we are truly you know
like like like going about it in the
most effective manner and wanted to do
it
really because it's just the right thing
to do and we are responsible to do so
then then then then just a conversation
is not the only you know we can do a lot
more than just having a conversation we
can literally you know collaborate and
and work together not saying that that's
going to happen I'm just saying like
what I realize is when it comes down to
like-minded people that truly want to
give back to the world organizing
yourself and working together allows you
to elevate your impact drastically so
that is you know why for me like
initially that's what I'm trying to
understand your intent you're like like
do you go about it in a scientific way
helping people is everybody equal do you
see people you know like in you know
that are starving as equal as gamers
like do you see every human as equal so
where do you put your resources where do
you put your energy go do you go about
it very scientifically and go like okay
if I can help so many people there that
is more important than you know this or
that like that is what I want to try
understand and if that is not the case
which which I'm fine with
then it's about then then the
conversation becomes more about like ah
what is your true intent and how do you
you know how do you how do you find a
relationship with yourself when you know
that truly helping people is not part of
the equation but rather it's a mean
within your comfort that is that is the
you know that is basically the sequence
of my my true intent of this
conversation so if you truly want to
understand me that is what I would like
to know so and and if you have questions
in that context great but I would also
like to know your side of these things
sure where you so first of all Athena I
want to start by expressing gratitude
so I am so grateful that you instead of
using analogies instead of asking me
questions that you just shared a
perspective about yourself right like
you just talked about why you're coming
on stream and why we're having this
conversation what your motivations are
that I I'm really grateful for because
that helps me instead of like asking
like talking about abstract concepts it
sounds like you're here because you're
you're wondering like where I'm coming
from whether are our goals are aligned
and whether there's an opportunity for
collaboration and if I our vision is not
aligned if I have not met some standard
that you're that you have for yourself
or that some that's get simplified like
that sure yes yeah I'm just it's fuzzy
then then you maybe you're curious about
if I'm not like you then like what am I
like and why am I like that way yes yes
yeah exactly
that yeah that is really yes I I think
this this works way better when we stop
using analogies and we actually just
like start talking to each other and
making sure if we're on the same page
right yes okay so thank you for doing
that that that style of communication
helps me way more so I mean so can I
tell you why I why I'm here to have this
conversation yeah okay I would love to
yeah so um I'm just here to talk to
people because you know you kind of talk
about like whether I'm in it to help
people and and whether I sort of know
whether I'm analytical and and do I want
to distribute resources in a fair way
and things like that I mean I think the
short answer is yes but I'm not very
confident so I think that I am a human
being and I'm prone to bias and although
I'm a smart guy and I'm an analytical
guy and I've trained for years and
formal systems to understand things like
bias and emotions and the origins of
desires and things like that as well as
studying neuroscience and psychology and
psychiatry then at the end of the day
I'm like sort of a flawed instrument
because that's what humans are that
humans are not really logical creatures
that like we have a lot of other things
that drive our behavior so I'm here to
do the best that I can but I'm guessing
that your commitment is way higher than
mine so I also
tend to be like somewhat of a really
like balanced guy in life in terms of
like I and I I don't nothin nothing
about your so I apologize if this is
being judgmental but I enjoy playing
video games I understand you do too so
maybe we're not that different but that
you know I I mean I basically wake up
and I try to help who I can in the way
that I can until I'm done helping people
and I need some time to recuperate or
regenerate and then I sort of like will
go home and I'll do like you know simple
things and be a regular human and then I
come back three times a week to hop on
stream and I try to help whoever the
universe puts in front of me and by the
universe I mean dank Moses who sets up
who comes on here so so and so I don't
like that is does that fit it that's it
that's what I'm about it's it's it's a
it's an answer that gives me an answer
to the question like yeah because like
the way I go about it I I take it I take
that my commitment a lot further and it
might be connected with confidence
because you you initiate it your
response by saying you're not that
confident because you have your own
flaws and I do know we all have our own
flaws but the beauty about humans is the
ability to learn from our flaws and and
improve it and and not to settle with
our flaws and it's right try to do
better and better I can bring the
impression that I'm not confident it's
what you said you started your answer by
saying like yeah so I'm asking you so
your impression of me would you say that
I come across as lacking and I think I
think my impression of you is is
actually irrelevant if I trust what you
say because if you say you're not
confident because of the human flaws
then I just accept that because you come
across a confidence but it's not about
how you come across
what you are is defined by what you are
and my my impression of you does not
have to align with with the facts of
what you actually are therefore I always
question my impression like and I just I
give you the benefit of the doubt and
what you say I just assumed to be true
unless there's an inconsistency yeah so
I wouldn't say that I'm not confident
and in fact I feel pretty confident I
would say that I just acknowledged that
I have flaws and that I'm not perfect
and that there's a big difference I
would actually say that my confidence
stems from understanding that I have
limitations so I used to have way less
confidence when I thought I was the best
thing since sliced bread as I've gained
experience and studied a lot of
different disciplines and worked a lot
with different people I I've developed a
lot of confidence out of understanding
that I'm limited and that I make
mistakes and do you do you see these
mistakes and do these limitations as a
strength to do better or as a weakness
of a human being
ah both probably more of the four more
as a strength so I think that I tend to
learn from my mistakes and that you
should learn from your mistakes and I
think that no matter how many mistakes I
learn from I'm gonna continue making
mistakes buddy but the beauty is that as
you keep learning from your mistakes
even though you still make mistakes they
will be you know they will be from a
different type and won't be always the
same as the previous once you've made so
for example if yes so so we're talking
abstractly again right what you see that
is abstractly because this is really
about you yeah but you're about to say
for example and then you were about to
use an analogy so I just jumped in there
oh I wanted to give you as an example
for example you playing video games and
being addicted to it and learning from
it okay apologies for interrupting you
no it's fine has put you in a position
where where you were you now helping
other gamers with similar issues so that
yeah that that in a sense that mistake
has has made you come out stronger and
absolutely you and and what I would I
would go even a step further and say
that any type of you know like anywhere
where you can improve even in in
in the more comfortable comfortable area
of your life even there you can you can
push further further and and do even
more good that's that's all I'm trying
to to point because for me I truly see
myself as the same as you as the same as
everyone we're all equal like I I do I
do think we're all equal in our
environment and how we grow up for a big
part shapes us we're where we where we
end up and and how we see things but
fundamentally our essence is is the same
and we we all just want to align with
reality in and we're all just life and
that's it and and basically like our
ability to you know understand these
mechanics and understand how it works
allows us to just you know be a better
version of ourselves and there is no
reason to act it at a certain point when
you feel comfortable say are here is the
line and this is where I stop and that
is why I just you know when you wear
earlier saying like oh yeah maybe have a
different way of going about life and
stuff or maybe it's it's it's it's
higher or well it didn't use the word
higher but it was in that direction I
don't see myself as I live my life at a
higher moral level or whatever I just
see I just try to be consistent and
truthful to myself and I and I and I and
I you know I put the bar where reality
is and and and when I see how people are
starving and stuff it really you know it
puts the bar quite high because I'm
living a very very comfortable life
compared to that and even if people feel
like I'm sacrificing a lot or even if
they feel like whoa you really go out of
your comfort zone because even when it
comes down to games I only play games as
function to reach people and and if it
doesn't suit the purpose to have an
impact I just don't do it because it's a
waste of my time like for example right
and and and I'm very functional I and
I've raised more I think they just jump
in for a second
are you sure so you've just but you've
been like talking for a little while and
I just want to pause for a second
just process what you've said can I ask
you a couple of questions yes of course
okay um I just I just found my my
attention waning a little bit and I was
having trouble following you so it helps
me to sort of just pause and make sure i
SPECT that because that is try to
actually listen which yeah III because
you said a couple of things that I was
really curious about and I think I'd
like to understand those better before
you keep going so that if we do have
sort of a common foundation so you said
that you set the bar where reality is
yes do you think that that is different
from what other people do that's a good
question because I would say other
people always set the bar where the
reality is and that's just how it is but
the thing is people's reality can be you
know can be very narrow can be very
small can we just do you know they're
family and that's it while the reality
that I live in is is is the planet like
I really see and look at the issues all
around the world and and these issues
when they're not in people's awareness
because they're not busy with it then
it's not part of their reality and even
their actual reality it doesn't exist
it's only you know it's only when they
see it on the news or whatever that they
get confronted by it same with like for
example I'll give you another example
like the meat industry like people when
they just buy it buy meat they just you
know there is the reality what are you
doing again theme okay I like I'll give
the I'll make the I'll make the example
personal like if you know
but you just I I don't I don't feel like
I need an example can I actually can we
go the other route where I just asked
you and and make sure you're on the same
page yeah thank good okay so you're
saying that you set your standard to
reality in that everyone sets their
standard to reality and that some
people's and the realities are narrow
and some people's realities are planet
wide well like depending on your
awareness it's it's bigger or smaller
and that basically where is your
awareness in relation to like other
people
I see everybody as equal well that's
kind of interesting because because it
that you know you you make these you
make these kind of like abstract
philosophical statements but when I
actually listen to what you say it
implies something else so maybe you can
help me understand this because you want
to say like so I asked you you know do
other people have objective realities
and then you said yes and then you
proceeded to make an actual comparison
so you said that they're their realities
are narrow whereas my reality is planet
wide so you may think it's Harrison
there I can't I can give you a really
good example I'm sure you can but but
please don't get me an example I just
want to make sure yeah I know I know you
really want to give me an example and it
seems like you just really he'll give
you a very concrete one about just you
can't you can't I know you just really
want to right you want to give me an
example like do you know do you see that
within yourself that you really want to
just give me that example like you got
it like you got to make me understand
you really need to tell me like do you
see that within yourself that there's
something within you that's like a
volcano that wants to explode and just
give me that example
No if you don't if you aren't eager to
hear it and there's no reason to bring
it up I am NOT eager to hear I would
like to ask a question and it's not that
I don't want to hear what you want to
say it's just that I find that I hopes
and you way better without examples okay
so you made a comparison so you say that
all people are equal I'm with you you
made a comparison where you said that
other people have narrow realities and
your reality is planet wide yes okay so
is there an intrinsic value judgment
there like is one better than the other
one benefits humanity more than the
other so so you're saying that one is
better that the planet-wide version of
reality is better that white version of
reality definitely leads to more
constructive actions towards society and
towards humanity and life in general yes
thank you very much for explaining that
that helps me immensely to understand
how was it what was it like when I when
I sort of was a little bit of an [ __ ]
for which I apologize and and and sort
of jumped in when you were about to
provide an analogy and ask you a
question that you answered is that okay
for you is it okay if I continue to do
that mine okay I don't mind if this
helps you and if it serves that purpose
then you you can even yell at me I don't
mind okay thank you so much man I
appreciate it it really helps me
understand okay
so um and if I cross the line please let
me know because it's not my intention
it's just I I kind of get the sense from
you that there's just this really like
instinctive responsive reflexive desire
to like help me understand through
analogies whereas I just I just want to
ask questions and if you answer them
plainly I think we'll get there I just
have to I have to I have to be better at
responding in a way that resonates
better with you and I can do I
appreciate that
yeah that's exactly what I'm asking you
to do so I'm really you know I'm
adapting a bit yeah thank you I am too
yeah so so so it sounds like there is
sort of an inherent value judgement
about kind of the nature of reality and
how much that your version of reality
benefits humanity would you call a
judgement or would you call it
observation
you
hi yeah yeah I'm just thinking oh oh
sorry sorry sorry it's a good question
what I call it a judgment or what I call
it an observation I'm not sure I mean if
someone is hot that was I was gonna give
if I'm busy with you know the
environment right and I see where I put
my trash to make sure that it doesn't
you know that it doesn't pollute the
planet and someone else just goes like
whatever and throws the trash out and
litters I mean like there's the is just
a simple example it is it's a personal
one or if if I choose to not smoke
because its effect will my health in the
long term what is he so simple related
to you know the the smoking example is
also related to a more earth kind of
awareness where I don't even deem my own
life as as crazy as it is sound as
myself my own
it's like cells in my body they are
there they just do what they gotta do
for my life for me to live just as much
as I'm here part of the collective to to
to give back life is not about me and if
you have a if you make life very small
then you can believe it's about you even
though it's not and that's why so many
people experience a void in their life
okay um is it okay if I switch gears and
just ask you questions in sort of a
different vein sure let's go can you
tell me a little bit about where you
grew up and what your upbringing was
like I in Belgium my family was very
poor
my father's mother came from a very poor
rural place
my mother is Belgium my mother was my
mother was raised Christian and my
father was raised Muslim
I wasn't like we were financially more
strong around 1415 years old
hmm so yeah my youth was pretty poor but
I didn't experience it as much my father
was quite
a very strong figure of authority while
my mother was very caring and loving and
I've had have since I was really young I
I was very much in contact with my
brother and his friends which were a lot
older talking about philosophy and stuff
so very young I was already thinking
about stuff when I was already seven
eight I was already thinking about you
know like signs and stuff and was very
busy with it
so what else yeah I guess that's that's
a I've been always I've never I got a
little bit you know like when I was
young you know some fights in school but
I was never like experiencing low
self-esteem and I was very unethical
since I was very young a very very
observer a very observant if I didn't
really develop identity when I was 13
like puberty didn't hit me so hard and I
just wanted to give back my entire life
because I've Irie you know saw the wrong
in the world and when I saw people that
were struggling and me not there is just
no difference between me and them it's
just like why this is just unfair and if
I can do something about it I got to do
something about it because else yeah
what if I'm that kid I mean if the roles
were different and this is just not okay
and you said your dad was an authority
figure what do you mean by that
he was a very uh yeah like very what is
the word he became very fundamental
Islamic rule alder and was very just a
very dominant person that at times were
quite it was quite I tried to avoid him
when I was younger because it was quite
what do you call it
yeah just yeah well it's not pleasant to
be around him but when it comes down to
trauma or something I I never got
traumatized by him or anything I don't
know for my other siblings if it was the
same I think I was like I was always
doing really well in school and such so
I didn't get the the heat I was not the
front line of the one that was taking
the blame or frustrations of my father
when he was angry so I was always like
in my own little corner playing with
Lego or whatever when I was a kid so I
went through childhood pretty
unscratched unless no I'm not
suppressing anything there's nothing I
forgot about so there's a few things
that happen in my past that that had
quite a hard impact on me emotionally
but even later on in life I managed to
process them by reflecting on it like
for example like you have in culture of
Islam they kill a sheep like that kind
of stuff but I was already you know I
was it was already vegetarian before
that because of my brother but seeing
these kind of things made me also
realise what are we doing I mean it
doesn't make any sense but like it
sometimes was hard for me to understand
why grown-ups can be so inconsistent but
I very quickly came to the realization
that people are not perfect and that
that even pointing out flaws or whatever
leads to more harm than good so yeah
okay I became very pragmatic in the way
I certainly see that you seemed very
pragmatic you seemed very analytical
you seem very philosophical you seem to
live by truths right that you've you've
discovered through reflection can I ask
you a couple of questions just about
some of the stuff that you said sure so
you said that you didn't sort of fail
you never face the brunt of your
father's anger
that you were kind of off in the corner
playing Legos and like someone else was
facing the blunt with the brunt yes like
my father in the past could be very it
could be very aggressive verbally and
very what is it the meaning is that the
word like really putting people down
yeah but I was never the target because
because I was really I was basically the
how do you say it the exemplar kid to
put it that way I always had good grades
and so my brother and sisters how many
sisters do you have to and also in in
Islam culture like definitely
traditional woman are not always treated
the best so like that's that's like
that's also a big source of them being
the target and my older brother yeah he
he had to deal with a lot of [ __ ] as
well in that regards I'm sorry that
sounds like sort of a rough situation
well I think every family has its own
has its own obstacles but he was there
for us his entire life and he provided
yeah and yeah you've made mistakes he
definitely made mistakes but sure
in retrospect he you know it could have
been a lot worse and he was actually I
would say definitely above average when
it comes down to giving an aim a score
okay good more than five has a father
okay so it sounds like he wasn't perfect
no one really is and at the same time
you're grateful for on average most of
what he did for you yeah yeah yeah
definitely like all doing retrospect if
I could go back in time I would have I
would have been more capable of steering
things into a more constructive
direction because there is also there
was a divorce and stuff
I could have done things better but I
didn't had the the knowledge I have now
when I was younger
who knows it sounds like you don't feel
guilty about that no I don't feel guilty
about it I mean this is what it is I
just always try to do my best
dear do you remember so you sort of like
rare but you painted a sort of a vivid
image of like you playing Legos in the
corner while your dad was maybe yelling
at your brother do you remember how you
felt when that was going on when you
were a kid yeah I was like when these
things happened I was just like I was it
was getting tuned out like I didn't even
I was just like he had there too because
my brother and my sister were much older
than me they were already you know like
what was it sixteen seventeen when I was
eight I was just like yeah it's it's
grown-ups you know like yelling at each
other whatever like it's just almost
like another day you know like there was
no it didn't make me feel like crawling
into a into a corner out of fear I was
just there and I was tuning it out
because yeah because it was it was just
me any sense
normal even though you're it's respect
it's not that normal yeah it's kind of
weird right like what what you started
to believe was normal that sort of
wasn't normal
it's also a kid as a kid it just is like
that I do it's it's almost it's almost
like you're like earlier when you said
like oh yeah it's not like anything
traumatic happened but we're sort of
describing is like sort of traumatic but
it was so normal that you sort of don't
even see it that way yeah but like
although we when I think about traumas
and I hear what's two people have to go
through I see myself as you know
privileged like some people got really
sexually abused physically abused and
really like you know like emotionally
abused that makes sense right like
you're kind of saying that other people
in the world and I'm sort of seeing you
know pardon me because this is just kind
of how my mind works but something of a
theme like it's almost like when you
grew up
you know that things were sort of it
almost sounds like a little bit unfair
in terms of of you know your dad sort of
never picked on you because you were a
good kid and and that maybe he was doing
other things like not he wasn't like
sexually abusive or anything like that
and you've said very clear I'm not
trying to paint your dad out to be a bad
guy because you've you know stated very
clearly that uh you know on average he
was better than most and you're grateful
for what he provided I'm not disputing
that or trying to trap you or anything
at the same time you know I I do think
it's kind of interesting because I'm
just trying to put myself and I'm gonna
talk about me or I'm gonna use an
analogy or use an abstract version I'm
trying to kind of put myself in the
shoes of you know someone who grows up
in a household where their dad is
demeaning and verbally abusive and how
it would be strange for someone to kind
of grow up in that sort of household if
they're never the target and oddly
enough I could sort of see how that
could lead to this kind of fundamental
realization especially if that kid was
super analytical that the world is
fundamentally at like an unfair place
and even though I have it better than
other people it's really unfortunate
that other people have it worse and that
I wish things weren't like that and I
think that things should be more equal
well yeah basically what you're trying
to get that is where does my motivation
come from from doing good in the world
yeah I mean I'm saying that that the
circumstance you're you're offering I
would seems to fit with the motivation
that you have but I wouldn't say that
such a fundamental motivation comes from
such a simplistic place yes indeed like
that's exactly what I wanted to answer
like yeah the the biggest source of the
biggest source of of doing what I'm
doing is just the hard reality like and
the different experience of going
through it I have not even done that I
mean III didn't get out I didn't grow up
in a war zone
I never starved and and I've never liked
what I also this is actually something
that's gonna sound a bit weird but it's
it's a thought experiment I've done so
much when I was younger
and it's gonna sound a bit weird but
it's it's gonna give you a better better
ID that's why I'm bringing bringing it
up like for me the time and the place
you were born is all just random like I
could have born in during World War two
I could have been born I could have been
born a Jew and I could have been you
know brought to the you know to the
concentration camps and if that would
have happened and that did happen to
many people and if it would have
happened to me and I would see my entire
family you know basically getting killed
and and me then being forced to do you
know hard labor with a gun pointed at my
head if I'm capable in that scenario
right to do more good in the world then
if I am doing right now then in a sense
I'd be a better person in that situation
and I cannot accept that I cannot accept
that that fact and that's a big reason
why my bar is quite you know when I said
earlier in my bar is hard my bar is
quite high because I know if I was in
that reality that's what I would be
doing I mean like I would literally be
working 16 hours a day as a slave while
I lost my family and not even being able
to properly you know like give say
goodbye or anything which is much more
cruel and if I could change at that
moment if I if I would given be given
the choice to live my life like I'm
living now rather than that life I would
do it in a heartbeat and I want to be
able to do better than that version and
as crazy as it sounds because I give
this example a lot on the stream it is a
fact like if I was born in and not even
that if tomorrow there is you know
whatever there's some it sounds to me
like you're just sort of like really
it's such such a strange thing that
you're kind of saying because what I'm
picking up from you I I wouldn't be
surprised if you don't sort of get that
you're not trying to convey this but
it's sort of weird I mean you're talking
about almost like that what you're doing
in this world is insignificant and that
you could be doing so much more know
what I'm doing right now is is very
significant because I'm putting the
effort to do so okay like what I've what
I've achieved so far is really a lot
like to give you a few examples just to
give you an idea I raised more than 25
million for children in need making me
one of the biggest philanthropists on
the Internet in a very effective manner
effective programs that I've even
visited I visited ebola-hit country to
raise awareness and I've also started
the place and that's why they call me a
cult where people can apply and work
together that have the same mindset of
wanting to help the world and you know
basically find like-minded people to do
good in the world and and I'm going to
try to even do more like trying to
implement universal basic income in in
very poor places and stuff I'm very
proactive and I also do real talk every
day where I talk about you know people
reflecting on these things and such and
that's why also some people said to talk
to you because you do similar things so
I I don't put myself down or anything I
always try to do better though so it's
not like I'm just you know also trying
to brag or anything for me I just I just
try to do what is best at any given
moment and yeah so I think you know it's
kind of interesting because I like you
have this very interesting
conversational sort of pattern and I'm
not quite sure what to make of it where
you'll say or do something and then you
kind of deny it immediately afterward
and like what like so for example like
yeah you just talked about all of your
accomplishments and then like
immediately afterward like is the first
time you said I don't brag like earlier
when you were talking about your
upbringing you were like there was
nothing traumatic but my dad was kind of
yelling and stuff like that you just
have this interesting and sometimes when
I like repeat back to you what you say
it seems like there's a disc
between the way I'm perceiving your
words and what your intention is which
sort of makes sense because it you know
it seems like you're very careful about
being understood properly the reason why
I'm making this clarification because
I've been streaming for a very long time
and whenever I bring up the amount of
money I raise people immediately go into
chat charity shield charity shield he's
bragging he's bragging so I want to make
sure that I'm just trying to state the
facts but yet maybe if if I wasn't
having a conversation just with you I
would not even mention this it's because
I'm aware that that more people watch
and this is really like the charity
stuff at the moment I talk about charity
stuff everybody goes like oh hey there
he goes again because they think that I
use the good work that I did as
justification to be aesthetically feel
when they say that
you
honestly
now like
I don't feel anything because I've
already processed it in the past it was
it was I had a hard time understanding
why but I've come to acceptance I've
done I've come to understand why it
happens is because it is because people
project very easily themselves and just
see me as something that I'm not
they think I'm a cult leader they think
I'm a brain washer they think I'm
scamming even though all these things
are not real they're not true they
believe that because they feel like it
and that's it like it doesn't matter
what is true or not
when they feel like it it must be true
and and for me as someone that is much
more analytical it's very hard to relate
to it because if the truth tells me
differently it's really very hard for me
to to deny it but I've come to realize
also it you know the entire post truth
world we live in and such that is
becoming more and more strengthened with
social media and the echo chambers
created and stuff where people get you
know their life strengthened that is
just you know a normal day for them and
and that's the thing like I've come to
accept that because in the past my
frustration came from a lack of
understanding I was like why I'm doing
all this good then I made videos even
with you know like we'd save the
children cuz I raised a lot for save
children
I showed video I showed proof people
kept saying I'm scammers even big
streamer saying I was a scammer I think
I'm concerned that you have a you have a
very subtle but powerful ego can I share
some thoughts with you sure sure so like
let's just take this example ok so you
were kind of saying that you know you
you were you were you used to be like
sort of not really happy or struggling
to understand because you still don't
really talk about emotions at all you
were saying that you didn't understand
why these people thought this way about
you but that essentially that they're
projecting and even though they're
incorrect they just believe this and so
like you know that that it's just like a
misunderstanding on your part what I
think the really dangerous thing there
is is like you know how do you know that
you are not the one that doesn't
understand because you're kind of saying
like oh I'm objectively right and
everyone else is projecting whereas how
do you know
you're not the one who's projecting and
they're not the ones who are objectively
right because like for example if I if I
if I walked out it like that I
understand that but like with this
specific example it's very hard to do
that because I'm talking about the fact
I mean it's like if I say the money goes
all to charity and it actually goes all
to charity there is no misunderstanding
on my part because I know all the money
goes to charity I mean there's evidence
everything it's very transparent as well
so if people then come to me and call me
a scammer then I know it's a
misunderstanding on their part it's not
sure what about being a cult leader say
well what about being a cult leader well
I'm open I'm open to - I'm open to the
idea that I might be I don't think it is
based on the evidence that I see the
properties of a cult leader I don't
think I am but there is a chance that I
am and that I'm just bullshitting myself
and that's that's the that's you know
that's where I find it as a strength
where I I always assume that what I
believe might be wrong I don't think I'm
a cult leader based on the data points I
have but there is a chance that I have a
cult leader and I'm just not aware of it
but so far no but nobody has shown I
mean I'm happy to hear you sort of say
that I'm not saying that you are you
aren't but I think this is this kind of
like for you to kind of admit that maybe
you are bullshitting this entire thing
maybe you are a cult leader that that
maybe you're wrong I think is like a
very important perspective to take right
an idea that I can I share with you what
I think sort of is is what I'm seeing
this is just what one man's opinion okay
so I'm not claiming this is genius I'm
not it's reality I'm just gonna share
with you what I see I think that your
mission is very very real so I think
your your devotion to the cause is very
very real I think that you really do
long to make the world a better place
and there are just a lot of like bizarre
things that I think the way that you
relate to your emotions the way that you
conceptualize yourself you
kind of like view your beliefs as truth
like and I recognize that when I say
that statement to you you're going to
respond by saying oh no all people are
equal in my truth is no greater than
other people's truth like I get that you
say that but if you actually listen to
the way that you talk for example when I
point out this issue of like a lot of
people say that you're a cult leader you
kind of default to them being the ones
that are projecting and you're the one
who's factually correct and I think part
of the reason that maybe this goes on is
because I do think that you're not you
have it sounds like you've become
accustomed to maybe numbing out emotions
I'm not really sure about this this is
like where I will be the first to admit
that I don't really know but generally
speaking if you look at data a lot of
times when people grow up in households
where there is some form of abuse even
if they're not members victims of the
verbal demeaning or whatever that they
can develop like an interesting
relationship with their emotions so
their emotions sort of affect them less
they learn to suppress things and you
sort of described a scenario that kind
of fits with that right like you if it
became normal to you there's sort of
like toxicity there's like objective
toxicity in your household and you've
become normalized to it it's become kind
of like normal to you and anytime we
sort of talk about things you sort of
say you experience emotions but at the
same time like when I ask you about them
your mind sort of goes to this and this
is another pattern that I've observed in
some people unclear if it if it applies
to you but that generally the process of
abstraction and pulling yourself out of
the equation and being non personal with
the way that you view the world being
objective instead of subjective
separates you from some of those
subjective influences and in my
experience a lot of times when people
are not aware of their subjective
influences are the ones where they sort
of lead to a logical conclusion that
they think objectively is true even
though they're completely and but they
think it's logically true because
they're not aware of how their mind is
shaping their impressions I can I can
understand that you can make this kind
of you know
connections I do have to say though that
when it comes down to emotions and
emotional intelligence I would say that
I have that I tried even more in that
regards than when it's about cognitive
intelligence it is because I understand
my emotions so well and I've had an
always a very you know honest
conversation about how I feel towards
myself in trying to understand them that
I managed to get to a point where I am
now because if it was suppressing
suppressing mechanics that I would be
using in order to achieve what I have
achieved I would have already had a
nervous breakdown
I would I would like I wouldn't have
gotten where I am
I'm very stable and very fulfilled and
satisfied as a person and when certain
strong emotional events happens like for
example my father passing away like I
processed them and and and I and I cry
and I feel the emotions and I try to
understand and make sense of it and and
I and I go through the grieving process
just like anyone else but because I have
such an honest relationship with myself
it goes very fast like it goes much
faster than with my siblings for example
even though it's you know it's it's of
course unfortunate and what I'm just
trying to explain is like this sense of
separation that you're talking about
like that even it's a very big trait of
narcissism as well do you think your
narcissistic no I don't think so okay I
don't think so at all I wouldn't deem
everybody equally if I was arson I would
for myself being better than others I
wouldn't work so hard as well to help
other people if I would be narcissists
because why I'm better than them like
yes so that's kind of interesting
because I think this is once again like
something that I'm having trouble
understanding and I think I'm gonna have
to wrap up in a few minutes I'll give
you kind of I'm just kind of letting you
know but so I'll just give you an
example right so like you make these
these abstract philosophical statements
like I believe all people are equal but
if we actually pay attention to what you
say
you frequently compare yourself for
example you just talked about how you
process emotions more fully and more
rapidly than your siblings after your
dad passes away and that's a pattern
throughout this conversation you say all
people are equal but by the way in this
particular example I'm objectively
better at processing emotions than other
people like you use those kinds of
examples all the time that sort of say
oh others have an error in reality and I
have a planet-wide reality the thing is
though equality does not mean that you
can have certain traits that are you
know factually more nearer advanced and
others I mean like do you do you think
that personality is on a fundamental
level we are all equal as human beings
that equality automatically brings about
that certain people that can contribute
more than others for example that that
that aspect also has to be part of the
equation and that's the practical
reality of equality the practical
reality I have one last question sorry I
keep interrupting you I apologize I
really do you think that narcissists
believe that and I'm I don't I don't
know if you're narcissists or not so
this isn't some kind of veiled attack
I'm genuinely curious because I have a
follow-up question do you think that
narcissists believe that they are that
they have that they're objectively
better in some ways than other people I
think narcissus is glorified himself
yeah so I think you have a very
interesting kind of ego so I think you
have the ego of having no ego so when I
was studying in India one of my teachers
once told me that there are two kinds of
ego and one is very subtle and it's
something that you see in people who are
highly spiritual one is the standard ego
which is kind of like narcissism and one
is the ego of having no ego it's saying
oh look at how everyone else glorifies
themselves but look at how I don't
glorify myself at all
like other people glorify themselves but
I don't
so there's sort of like a subtle ego of
look at how egotistical everyone else is
look at how everyone else projects but I
don't I don't project
I'm not egotistical I'm objective I'm
humble I'm devoted to the cause I'm pure
I can't I know that you're almost have
to go and that's why I want to respond
to this release in a very I do think
that a lot of the conversation that
we've had like comes from you trying to
see yourself in me and a lot of it is
projection where you go through life in
a more self-centered manner and you try
to find that framework in me while so
for example for the ego and these things
where parts in your life where you
struggled with it a lot while for me all
these things are very irrelevant like I
just go through life I wake up I do what
I gotta do when I go to bed it's very
simple yeah and all these concepts and
and this you know this like all my
experience or my pastor stuff is
irrelevant to me it's like and it truly
is like if you get to know me or you see
me you would really be be a little bit
confused like a why doesn't he care
about these things and because I was
confused up until this moment but yeah
go ahead a lot of a lot of what a lot of
your analyzes is filling the gaps with
your own experience which then
automatically portrayed something where
you try to see you know you try to
conceptualize and and and see me as a
you know from yeah from that angle while
I just live my life and accept things
for what they are and and and when I
experience discomfort I just take it and
I just you know go about my day and
that's it like there is no there is no
focus on the self development or any of
that because at the end of the day we
are what we are and all these things are
not that you know are not that relevant
when you when you want to eat you gotta
eat and when you you know when you gotta
get water you get water things are
actually very same
when you strip away all the all this all
this noise and that's the way I live my
life and and and and there is very
little to it like it's it's it's
actually quite simple I'm just saying
like I think a lot of the analyzing that
you're doing is coming from your
perspective and trying to understand me
through your world which is yeah which
is which is which is not which is not as
easy when when when when I go about life
in a way where a lot of this identity
structure and construct just doesn't
really exist because I know it's not
real sure so I thank you for explaining
that positive way and this is not a
criticism I I didn't think it was a
criticism at all are you getting the
sense that I'm Crick I'm very glad so I
I've been very transparent with you
about what I think could be going on so
for example I said like I think you have
this other kind of ego called the ego of
having no eager I think that could be
going on because I can't really know you
after talking about an hour and a half
right so I I think I think the way I'm
approaching this conversation is by
trying transparently sharing my
impressions so that you can explain to
me your perspective on it yes right and
so you've just explained to me that you
think that when I toss something like
that out at you that it is a projection
from my end and in my experience yes
many parts in the conversation but yes
yeah yeah yeah I I agree I'm simplifying
things I'm losing some nuance so just
one last thing that I would kind of
leave with you is that often times and
you're when you're kind of talking about
me coming from my experience I
completely agree I'm absolutely coming
from my experience now I don't know when
you say my experience do you mean my
personal psyche or my do you mean my
experience in life
your your experience in life okay so
I'll show you with you just one last
thing so generally speaking when I I'm a
psychiatrist and when I deal with people
who have narcissism when their
narcissism is challenged they will
frequently go to things like projection
of the person who is challenging their
narcissism right so like if I tell you
hey I think maybe you have this kind of
ego the simplest way for your that kind
of ego to hide is to debunk or deep
diffuse or challenge or pull the legs
out of what I'm trying to say so you say
like oh like it's not really a problem
on my end you're just projecting which I
could be projecting I'm just sharing
with you I'm not saying your
narcissistic or that you aren't I'm just
a question yeah so let's say I would
tell you you're a narcissist right yeah
and you would start giving arguments
while you're not right no ah no no I
would ask you why do you think I'm a
narcissist I wouldn't start arguing with
you immediately I would ask you where
your perspective comes from and help me
understand why you think I'm a
narcissist but that so let's say that's
I not what you do right you start
arguing immediately and explaining to me
why I'm wrong and how I'm all go a step
further because like sure I'm not just
asking you whether you're a narcissist I
say you are a narcissist because of this
and this and that
right and you respond to this and this
and that and you say like yet this does
not apply to me and then I tell you
that's what every narcissist would say
yes what's your question say what you
said let me ask you a question but I
haven't heard a question well that's the
question if but that's it's not a
question well like what what what is
your what is your response to to to this
because it's like a basically a catch-22
at that point it's like no it's not
because because there's a problem with
the assumption right so you said if I if
I call you a narcissist and then you
said and then I say I give you evidence
and then you respond to that evidence if
you counter that evidence and then I say
but you're projecting I wouldn't do that
I wouldn't I wouldn't do that middle
step between me and you is different so
when you say if you call me narcissus
I'm not going to respond to your
evidence with evidence of my own I'm
gonna stop and ask you why you believe
that and help me and I'm going to
understand where you're coming from and
why you believe that about me so that's
the difference so if you if you if you
don't let me I would if I would present
you with three cases you either have you
know the ego of not having an ego or you
have you know a strong ego or you have a
weak ego right if that is the three
points that I you know that I present
and I say this is this is in this
framework you're either one of the three
right and I'm saying like oh no that is
that is that is based on your experience
that you have these three you know these
three properties and you don't see it
wider then I am the one giving a organ
because it's very directly connected to
the reason why you said I wasn't
potentially a narcissist or or have ego
like and I'm telling you the reason why
you only have these three options in
your explanation is because you're
projecting your experience because if
you would have a wider experience you
would have more versions than just these
you're making you're making a couple of
big assumptions so I do have other
options in my tool belt I just simply
don't think that they apply to you right
so I'm not talking to you about things
that I don't think apply to you then I
misunderstood that I thought yeah
you you would I'm glad these these I'm
sure I'm sharing when I say here's what
I think could apply to you Athene I'm
talking about the things that apply to
you not all of the possibilities you
were talking about your experience in
India where you were talking to your
teacher and he was mentioning these
three yeah so it was not in direct
correlation with me it was based on your
own experience that's why I brought it
up yeah so like I would assume if you
would tell me about your experience
which is not directly connected to me
that it would have all options and if it
would just be in in in context to
talking to me you wouldn't even have to
mention all three you would just mention
one so then it's not so far-fetched for
me to assume that you were giving a full
scope of what you are trying to explain
based on your experience which then made
me mention hey this is based on your
experience that's what you call
projection basically I'm just saying
like it's not like I'm trying to be you
know deflective on what you say I'm GRU
was just trying to pinpoint to the
argument you were giving me why you know
what why these things could be the case
that's all like yeah I'm not yeah that
makes sense
do you have I offended you in some way
no not at all
okay like honestly they're like I I know
you're just trying to do what is best
based on your own you know you're your
own reference frame and I try to have
the best as well so to me I'm not
judging or blaming or whatever I just
you know I just thought it was
interesting to have a chat with you and
a call and because people in my in my
view were basically in your view base
were really you know very very
interested in listening to conversations
so I thought it would be interesting and
I completely agree man so can I offer
just a couple of other thoughts and then
ask maybe one or two last questions so
first of all I think I I you know just
for the sake of
I want to just repeat what I said
earlier I do think that your cause is
Venu very genuine and that your approach
is just and that you really believe in
what you're doing
in my experience so once again talking
about my reference frame which is really
the only reference frame I can come from
that can coexist with the ego of having
no ego and in fact the people who are
the people who develop an ego of having
no ego are the ones who are actually
doing the kind of work that you do so
it's very common amongst people like
monks and it's a very very subtle ego
that's very difficult to detect so
whether that's going on with you or not
I at the end of the day can't really say
but I'm noticing some signs that could
point to that now whether that's the
case or not I'm not sure and I've sort
of laid those out before and you can
kind of watch when I sort of talk about
how you end up making comparisons but
you make overarching statements about
truth of equality but when you actually
listen to what you say you make lots of
comparisons with other people and that
when you make those comparisons you sort
of treat them as a reality is a is
opposed to an opinion whether it's real
or not like I don't know some of that
stuff actually sure like you can sort of
factually say that you know stuff went
to charity or didn't go to charity but
when it comes to like who emotionally
processes your dad's death the fastest I
don't know how you would know that
because I don't think there are any
external signs that sort of course if
practically if I'm talking to my
siblings like regularly I can see them
carrying it a much more heavily than I
do for sure like some of my siblings in
more than a year later are still
struggling with it like yeah so for me
so yeah I mean that is that it's not in
my I mean it's just not in my head it's
unless I can reason I can I'm
suppressing it there you go there you go
I don't think so but it is possible but
I I completely I completely agree that
you could be suppressing it
you may not be suppressing it and that
it would be very hard for you to know
because that's the nature of suppression
right suppression is when our mind
buries something so that we're not aware
of it that's the very definition of it
so I'm really using so many emotions
when you passed away hi
these are even have experienced the
emotions the emotional process because
like initially initially when it
happened I was the person to accept it
the quickest like some people didn't
like some of my siblings didn't even
accept that he passed away like it took
in them days before they even realized
that I think I really do not know enough
about that situation so you know you
were there you know what you experienced
you know what you saw you're gonna be
the one who's who's best able to judge
what actually happened there's no way I
can say all I'm saying is that I think
exactly what you said which is that
there's a possibility possible yes that
you suppress some kind of emotion
because I think the evidence suggests
that you grew up in a household where a
lot of children learn to suppress
emotions ie playing with LEGOs while
your brother is getting yelled at and
sometimes that leads to emotional
suppression I'm not saying it it did in
your case or that it happens now I just
I don't know do you feel it I actually
do not know I I don't know when it comes
to you I really don't know I'm just
sharing with a bit I'm just in general
when you suppress emotions do you feel
it in any shape or form yeah almost you
do feel it yeah because I don't feel it
I'm just saying like what does I mean
you can feel it feel it like emotionally
or physically or what in any shape or
form is that anything yeah so good
absolutely so I think the biggest sign
that you have suppressed or inactive
emotions is actually your ego so in my
experience the ego arises is a
protective mechanism for emotions and
allows us to not feel the emotions so
I'll just give you an example like if
I'm attracted to a woman and I asked her
out and she says no then my ego becomes
active and I start coming up with all
kinds of justifications for why I asked
her out and why she said no instead of
just feeling the rejection so I'll start
to tell myself oh like objectively she's
not that attractive logically I just
asked her out for these reasons and then
what the ego does is it goes to your
intellect and hijacks the Intel
because I'm sure you've observed that
when people become narcissistic you
can't logically convince them of
everything because they are logically
convinced that they are absolutely
correct that their intellect is not
functioning properly and is sort of like
functioning due to these things like
projection and narcissism can they see
themselves change I don't know it's an
abstract question I'm not sure I'm just
sort of well because you were talking
about nice it depends on the person so
generally speaking when I point this out
to them I think a lot of value comes
from it right so well this is this is
what I see that makes me think that you
could have ego one is that you know it
sounds like you live a life where
there's where people attack you in some
ways and generally speaking when I think
about that I imagine that at times in
the past that sounds like that hurt
you're kind of okay with it now or that
people say like slandering things about
you you tend to be hyper focused on
rationality logic and abstraction and
when we actually oh one second I'm sorry
that it takes so long sorry I gotta get
going yeah but that that I sort of see
you fitting this pattern whether it
applies to you or not I'm not sure but
that generally speaking a hyper
rationality with abstraction and a lot
of comparative statements without
believing you're making comparative
statements or that your comparisons are
objectively correct whereas other
people's opinions or just opinions or
projections speaks to me of the presence
of ego whether that's true or not I
don't know I mean I think the reason I'm
sharing this with you is because I
respect you and I think you should
reflect on it which is exactly what I
think you're doing in what you will do
and I think that's awesome that you're
doing that and I have one last question
for you so do you want to collaborate
that was the goal of this conversation
for you right so let me ask you well the
answer the answer to that question lies
in you and the answer is do you like how
far do you want to go to truly help
people basically like and and the
conversation has shown me that you want
to live a normal life and you want to
help people on the side and combine them
both and basically in a sense settle
with that and my question would be like
yeah do you want to settle with that or
do you want to take it further because
you can maybe help even more
because like for me that is that is the
extent to which we can collaborate
because of course we can collaborate in
less or bigger extent but like the
extent to which you want out of you know
your comfort zone and really do good in
the world for a big part defines how
strong we can work together because of
course we can have you know these talks
because people seem to really love it I
mean like look at the amount of people
that are watching it's crazy like they
like they like this conversation you
like to see you know stalking because
it's very interesting so in that regards
that on itself could be interesting
because I like to talk to you it's not
like talking with destiny where it's
really very very very sensational and
yelling and all that stuff this is much
more chill and people seem to like that
and and it's hard to even find an
interest for these type of conversations
so in that regards I think we can
definitely collaborate when it comes
down to practical action and do you know
like like charity work and stuff it's
something you know we we could we could
explore in the future so I would say I
wouldn't I wouldn't drop a no and and I
wouldn't throw up a yes I think we can
you know we can definitely have a
follow-up conversation if that's
something you feel like doing and I will
definitely reflect on things you said
and you can also do so if you think
there was anything worthwhile I think
there was a time that was worthwhile
yeah so yeah like and your viewers if
they find it worthwhile because I also
understand if you know it's not
something for them that I'm not going to
you know be this yeah this this guest
that they just go like okay again this
some of this and yeah maybe we can also
you know like in the future spice it up
because I've been very I have been very
yeah like like we've been very what do
you call it surface it was a very
surface conversation and I do think if
we go deeper things will become even
more interesting because it helps people
to understand intent and such and and
and help you thinking philosophically
Sagan you be deeper philosophically no I
mean deeper psychologically really to
the foundation of what drives us to do
what we do and why we do it and and and
analyzing it in a way that people can
very easily relate to because comfort
for example is a word everybody can
relate to it's very easy to wrap your
head around like oh yeah sure I'm trying
to you know settle and find comfort in
what I'm doing
it's easy to to get like people that
procrastinate people you know that don't
procrastinate it's very common ground
yeah and and and and basically being
able to simplify everything we talk
about that sometimes kins can look
complex on the surface like I mean this
conversation it sometimes was really all
like a little bit all over the place at
the time the theme dude I really gotta
go cuz I literally have a car that's
waiting outside with my kids it's been
here like if you're interested we can
definitely have another call and yeah
like for me it was interesting I like to
have this chat do you get want to
collaborate more in the future I have no
idea what that means because you speak
in such philosophical and broad terms
that I like it would be if it would be
having more of these kind of
conversations for example on the stream
yeah okay hold on one second I really
got to go um I'm gonna say the same
thing you said which is maybe not a yes
and not a no okay I just have
think about whether this is aligned with
the kind of work that I'm trying to do
like I think it's done
hey what's up yes I understand
understood okay okay I'm coming love you
yeah let's do a theme okay I had to hang
up on the dude cuz I I really got to run
my kids are going insane it's cold
outside okay so let me just stop real
quick okay well talk about um I gotta go
but I hope that wasn't rude to a theme I
will apologize to him later anyway guys
I thought I mean I thought that was
interesting you know we'll see I don't
know if you guys are you know that was I
don't know how much of that was
voyeuristic for you all but it really
wasn't lawyer to stick for me I mean I'm
not trying to upset him or anything but
yeah so thank you guys for coming we're
gonna stream on Sunday from 6 to 8 and
we're gonna do like more Q&A and stuff
but I really just like literally have to
run out of the room but love you guys
thank you for everyone who showed up and
yeah have a nice evening